♪Opening Song♪
--[wood creaks]
--[water rushes]
[MANA]
This is my last request.
Please give birth to me.
I want to meet you
all over again.
I do.
A-And I want to look
at this lovely ocean
once again next to you.
[seagulls chirp]
[ISANA gasps]
[WOMAN A]
So, who is he?
I... I don't know.
I'm not exactly sure.
But he was asking
about the uminaoshi.
[WOMAN A]
What? Really?
[WOMAN B] Yes. I wonder
how he heard about them.
[GINKO]
Perfect.
Came all this way and absolutely
nothing to show for it.
These islanders
sure are tight-lipped.
Well, guess I'll
just take it slow.
[GINKO]
Hm?
That strange glow. What is it?
[gasps]
It's too bright to
be sea fireflies
and too dim to be the
glow of fishing lanterns.
[MIO] I don't know.
I'm not sure what they are.
Ah... So you can see them?
[MIO gasps]
So tell me,
do you know much about
things like that?
[GINKO]
Well... yes.
It's how I make my living.
[ISANA]
Mommy!
It's time to make dinner!
Grandpa's ba--
[gasps]
It's the stranger...
You're welcome to stay
with us if you like.
With all the snakes around,
it's not safe to camp here.
[footsteps]
[ISANA] Grandpa!
We have company!
[MIO'S FATHER]
Now that's a rarity.
Who's this guest, Mana? Tell me.
Her name is Isana.
Oh... Right. Forgive me, Mio.
[inaudible]
[MIO]
Unless it clouds up,
I don't think you'll
see them again tonight.
They disappear whenever
the moon is out.
Oh... Huh.
Ginko?
I've heard...
...you've been asking
about the uminaoshi.
Is that true?
It is.
Know anything?
[MIO]
Look. Out there.
The glow always appears
near those two rocks.
And only when the
sky is moonless.
Below those rocks,
lies an underwater trench.
Everyone on the island calls
it the "Dragon Shrine."
Many people have lost
their lives in that spot.
It's a short death, though.
Somehow they're reborn
looking exactly the same.
Ginko?
Did Isana... look like
a normal child to you?
[gasps]
You mean that--?!
Isana...
She's my daughter and the
uminaoshi of my mother.
[MIO sobing]
Father!
Father, don't do this!
Please! She's still alive!
Mio...
I have to! No one's ever
survived this disease before!
She won't come back unless we
submerge her while she's alive!
You know that!
Don't do it!
[MANA]
I'm sorry, Mio.
I'm afraid to die.
Going away forever
and ever... terrifies me.
Please understand.
Let your Father and I do this...
...so I can come back.
This is what I want.
Let me do this.
[MIO]
Mother...
Mother!
[sobs]
[MIO'S FATHER]
Mio, tomorrow is the day.
The full moon is finally here.
Please do it.
I'll never ask you
for another favor.
Don't you want to see
your mother again?
I do.
So do all our relatives.
We miss her terribly.
We want Mana to return to us.
Don't you?
I know it hasn't
been easy for you
losing both your husband
and then your mother.
You've been
through a lot, dear.
But just think.
If you have a child,
you'll have something
to live for again.
Please, Mio...
This can't work without you.
[MIO]
Very well.
[MIO'S FATHER gasps]
If seeing that child will
make you all feel better,
then I guess it's my duty.
I'll give birth to it.
But the child is no
longer my mother.
You have to promise me that
you won't call her Mana.
[waves crash]
[MIO'S FATHER]
Just one will do.
[MIO]
Any one, huh?
[MIO'S FATHER] Yes. I'm not
sure how it happens,
but if a person swallows it, it
eventually becomes a child.
And in a month, it develops
into the person we submerged.
[MIO]
It might be hard to believe,
but that's exactly how
Isana was born.
You mentioned
your late husband.
Any chance she's his child?
[MIO]
No. That's impossible.
My husband died a full two
years before Isana was born.
Ginko, I--
I want to know what that
child is. I have to know.
[GINKO] Well, I'm not
really sure yet.
But your daughter appears
to be human to me.
Plus, you were pregnant
and gave birth to her.
For now, Just think
of her as a child
that looks a lot like her
grandmother and nothing more.
[MANA]
Mio?
What's the matter?
Can't fall asleep?
Mommy has that
problem sometimes.
Want to know what I do?
I close my eyes and imagine that
I'm a big fish in the ocean,
swimming back and
forth very slowly.
Then I start to go
deeper and deeper,
and the water gets
bluer and bluer.
And before I know it,
I'm asleep, just like that.
[ISANA]
Mommy?
What's the matter?
Oh, it's nothing, sweetie.
You get back to sleep, okay?
There's nothing to worry about.
[ISANA]
Yep, that's right.
They tell me I'm the
uminaoshi of my grandmother.
There are lots of people
like that here, see?
That little girl's one, too.
When she was six, she was bitten
by a snake and almost died,
but then she got reborn.
Same thing with that
woman over there.
She had only been
married for a short time
when she got
attacked by a shark.
She was reborn, too.
Her husband had to wait
nearly twenty whole years
to marry her again.
Just look.
The reborn and their loved ones
are living happy lives now.
What about you?
Are you happy?
When people call me Mana,
it's confusing.
But Mommy never calls me that.
I'm so happy to have
her for a mother.
And I'm so happy that I can
live here forever and ever.
I love it here.
I really do.
I don't see anything.
But still, It's not safe to
approach the glow at night.
Maybe I should just wait
until the next full moon.
So does that mean you're going
to stay with us until then?
Sure does.
[ISANA]
It's so lovely! Look!
[GINKO] An island where
people can be reunited
with their lost loved ones.
A place where no one ever
truly has to say goodbye.
[GINKO]
In that sense, at least,
this is paradise.
But still...
There's a slight resemblance.
Well, that's what I
used to tell myself
when she was a baby.
After all, I didn't
know what my mother
looked like when
she was a child.
I didn't have a clue.
But then, everything
changed when...
...Isana grew older
and got bigger.
Little by little, bit by bit,
her looks, her personality,
even her facial
expressions began
to resemble the mother
I knew and loved.
[MIO sobs]
[MIO]
My mother is gone. I know that.
But Isana looks just like her,
and she calls me "Mother".
I may have given birth
to her and raised her,
but she doesn't
seem like my own.
[GINKO]
Hm?
[GINKO] They're coming
from the dragon shrine.
[gasps]
[GINKO]
Those globules...
It's just a guess at this point,
but I think they're created
by some sort of mushi.
I can't say for sure and I
have nothing definitive yet,
but it seems to make sense.
Especially when you consider...
...I found human
embryos inside them.
The beginning form of
life for every one of us.
Someone swallows a globule,
and they become pregnant.
They then give birth to a child
virtually identical to the loved
one they submerged at sea.
That suggests these mushi
can return people to
their embryonic states.
[MIO]
So does that mean... Isana?
That girl.
She is physically identical
to your deceased mother.
And from here on, she's going
to resemble her more and more.
However, she was born
and raised by you, Mio.
She may look just like her,
but she cannot turn
into your actual mother.
In fact, as far as
Isana's concerned,
you are every bit her "mother."
[gasps]
[MIO]
I see.
So, that's how it is.
I guess I'll find
a way to be strong.
[ISANA]
Hey, Ginko!
[GINKO] I was thinking
about leaving tomorrow
if a boat's available.
[ISANA]
Huh?
If I get any more involved,
I might begin to question if I
could ever leave this island.
I don't have any right to
take away your happiness.
Or anyone else's.
Thanks, Ginko.
Thank you.
When Mommy's about to die,
I'm going to do the same
thing she did for me.
I'm going to give
birth to her.
So that way, we'll be
together forever.
I couldn't live without Mommy.
[MIO'S FATHER]
We'd better wait and see
what the weather's
going to do today.
It could be a typhoon.
I guess I don't have any choice.
Sounds like the
storm's getting worse.
It's loud.
I sure hope it doesn't
keep you awake all night.
Oh, don't worry.
I know a good way
to fall asleep, Mommy.
First, I close my eyes.
Then, I imagine that I'm
a big fish in the ocean,
swimming back and
forth very slowly.
Then I start to go
deeper and deeper,
and the water gets
bluer and bluer,
and things start to
get darker and darker
as I head towards the
bottom of the ocean.
Then, before I know it--
[ISANA]
Mommy?
[MIO]
I'm sorry, Sweetie.
I'm fine. Just thirsty.
Stay here. I'll be right back.
Be strong... Be strong.
[MIO]
It's going to get swept away.
[gasps]
[MIO screams]
[VILLAGERS shouting]
My boat! It's missing!
You don't--
Uh! Over there!
[gasps]
Mio!
[MIO'S FATHER]
Isana! No! Wait!
Don't go near that glow!
It'll eat you alive!
[ISANA grunts]
Don't be so hasty.
We do this cautiously.
Right.
[ISANA]
Mommy! Hold on!
[MIO screams]
[GINKO]
They've surrounded the boat.
What do we do?
Isana!
[gasps]
Stay away!
[MIO]
Please!
[GINKO]
No! Wait! Isana!
[BOTH gasp]
You alright?!
[MIO coughs]
[GINKO]
Isana, what about you?!
I'm okay.
Get in! Hurry!
[MIO shouts]
[GINKO]
Damn, these things are strong.
Can't budge.
Not an inch.
[GINKO]
If they eat me,
will they turn me
into an embryo, too?
I'd have to start
life all over again.
A new beginning.
Now there's a thought.
[GINKO]
Some would kill for that.
But me?
Not a chance.
Instead it'd be more like...
...like a bad joke.
[GINKO]
What?
They're letting go?
[ALL gasp]
[MIO]
We need to get out of the water.
[GINKO]
The storm... it's passed.
[GINKO] Why? Why did the
mushi let go so suddenly?
[GINKO]
So that's it.
The moon.
The moon is out.
[GINKO]
I'll admit I don't know much
about these particular mushi,
but I'll share my
theory with you.
That weird glow?
That's how they
lure people in.
They eat them and regenerate
those people as embryos.
That's just their nature.
These mushi have
a particular diet.
They feed on the length
of time a person lives.
Anyway, I'm sure both of you
had figured this out
already on your own.
And as for your other issues,
give it time.
I'm sure you'll work them out.
Right.
As for you...
You jumped right into that
water without a second thought.
Thanks for scaring the
daylights out of me.
[giggles]
I'm sorry.
That was dangerous.
Even if they ate your mother,
You would've seen her again
when she was reborn, you know?
[ISANA] Yes, but they would
have eaten up all the time
Mommy had lived, wouldn't they?
I couldn't let that
happen to her.
I'd be so lonely.
But even so, I think I'd
rather see Mommy die...
...than give her entire
lifetime away to someone else.
[ISANA]
Uh...
[MIO]
You think just like I do.
[MIO] And that's just
what I'd expect...
...from my daughter.
[GINKO]
Uminaoshi.
They'll continue to occur
here on the island
as long as people
choose rebirth over death.
After all, they help
put the dying at ease.
They fill the void
in the hearts of their loved
ones who are left behind.
But perhaps being able to
die without that hope,
at least here,
is one of life's rare and
fortunate blessings.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "The Sound of Rust."